DOC-10974: Provide better explanation of "nodes" clause in create index (#590)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/learn/pages/services-and-indexes/indexes/index-replication.adoc

[#index-replication]
== Index Replication

[.edition]#{enterprise}#

You can replicate primary and secondary indexes across cluster nodes running the {index-service}[Index Service].
This feature is available only in Couchbase Server Enterprise Edition.
Index replication has the following benefits:

> * *Availability*: If one Index Service node is lost, the others continues to provide access to replicated indexes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Availability*: If one Index Service node is lost, the others continue to provide access to replicated indexes.
```

> * *Availability*: If one Index Service node is lost, the others continues to provide access to replicated indexes.

Reviewer: To comply with Vale rules, change one to 1 throughout? 

```suggestion
* *Availability*: If an Index Service node is lost, the others continue to provide access to replicated indexes.
```

Author: Done

* *High Performance*: If original and replica copies are available, incoming queries are load-balanced across them.

> If the number of nodes running the Index Service decreases, and index replicas are lost, Couchbase Server progressively assigns replacement index replicas to all Index Service nodes subsequently added to the cluster, until the required number of index replicas again exists for each replicated index.

Reviewer: This sentence feels a bit long, can we split it into two? 

```suggestion
If the number of nodes running the Index Service decreases and index replicas are lost, Couchbase Server progressively assigns replacement index replicas to any new Index Service nodes added to the cluster.
This continues until the required number of index replicas again exists for each replicated index.
```

Author: Done

include::example$services-and-indexes/indexes/replication-nodes.n1ql[]
----

* In the `WITH` clause, use the `num_replica` attribute to specify the number of replicas required.
When you use this attribute by itself, the index and the required number of replicas are automatically distributed across Index Service nodes.
The distribution pattern is based on a projection of optimal index availability, given the number and disposition of Index Service nodes across defined server groups.
The required number of replicas must be smaller than the number of cluster nodes currently running the Index Service.
If it's not, the index creation fails.
+
In the following example, an index is created with two replicas, with no destination-nodes specified:
+
[source,sqlpp]
----
include::example$services-and-indexes/indexes/replication-num.n1ql[]
----

> * In the `WITH` clause, use the `nodes` and `num_replica` attributes in the `WITH` clause together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the `WITH` clause, use the `nodes` and `num_replica` attributes together.
```

* Provision of a low-latency range query, while allowing indexes to be scaled out as needed.

For more information, see {index-partitioning}[Index Partitioning].

[[index-consistency]]
== Index Consistency

(((scan consistency)))
(((consistency)))
(((consistent)))
Couchbase Server handles data mutations with full consistency — all mutations to a given key are applied to the same vBucket, and become immediately available.
In contrast, Couchbase Server maintains indexes with degrees of eventual consistency.

> For every query. you can specify the following consistency options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every query, you can specify the following consistency options:
```

[[index-snapshots]]
== Index Snapshots

> Couchbase Server maintains one or more index snapshots on disk, to permit rapid recovery if nodes fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couchbase Server maintains 1 or more index snapshots on disk, to permit rapid recovery if nodes fail.
```
